# HIPAA-Compliance-Training
We now live in an era of big data – and that means new data regulations like California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) the related requirements for CCPA compliance. Consumers are sharing significant quantities of information with businesses and organisations at an unprecedented rate. Legislators, policymakers, and governments across the globe have been slow to change their laws to ensure that these organisations are adequately protecting the data entrusted to them. The EU made headway in May 2018 by introducing the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), which implemented new standards in data protection and granted individuals new rights over their data.  While the US has laws protecting specific types of data, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and healthcare data, no federal laws are addressing general data protection. Following the introduction of GDPR, it was only a matter of time before states introduced laws focussing on information security and data protection. California became one of the first state to introduce legislation improving its data privacy laws. Governor Jerry Brown signed the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) into law in June 2018, amending Part 4 of Division 3 of The Civil Code of the State of California. Ed Chau, member of the California State Assembly and Democrat Senator Robert Hertzberg authored the bill.  Any organisation that had to alter its business practices to comply with GDPR would find many aspects of CCPA familiar. For example, they both have vast reaches, and organisations across the globe are required to comply with their rules, not just businesses within their jurisdiction.  CCPA is not a perfect mimic of GDPR, however. GDPR has a much broader scope than CCPA. CCPA primarily focuses on the rights that consumers have over their data, whereas GDPR additionally addresses issues about data security. Therefore, it is not safe to assume that if your business is GDPR-compliant that you are also CCPA compliant. Careful attention should be paid to CCPA’s specific stipulations to ensure that your organisation is not accidentally in violation of the new rules.  CCPA affects a vast range of organisations. This article details some of the most vital aspects of compliance. However, if you are in doubt that certain practices within your organisation are CCPA-compliant, it is recommended that you seek the advice of a legal professional.  What is covered by CCPA? Any business that collects consumers’ personal information which does business in California and which satisfies one or more of certain criteria must comply with CCPA. This rule applies regardless of the physical location of its headquarters. The criteria are:  has annual gross revenues over twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000); possesses the personal information of 50,000 or more consumers, households, or devices; or earns more than half of its annual revenue from selling consumers’ personal information. Exceptions to these rules may be found on CCPA’s website.  CCPA protects the data of California residents. CCPA protects these consumers even their data is collected while they are temporarily located outside of California. Businesses must still comply with CCPA if a Californian consumer’s data is collected while they are outside of California.  It is essential that an organisation has a thorough understanding of what CCPA means by “information”. Section 1798.140(o) states that CCPA regulates any data relating to a person, household, device, or inferences drawn from other information to create a profile about a consumer. This definition of information is much higher than that invoked by GDPR.  To illustrate this point, some examples of personal information include: online identifiers, IP addresses, email addresses, biometrics, products or services purchased, browsing history, and educational and employment information.  CCPA does not cover information that may be publicly available or created due to conduct outside of California’s borders.  CCPA Consumer Rights Requirements Much like GDPR, CCPA grants new rights to individuals, allowing them more control over their data. CCPA grants these rights to Californian residents who have had their data collected, processed, or sold by an organisation which falls under CCPA’s scope.  The most important rights are:  Right to be informed as to the categories of information being collected Right to be informed of the purposes for which the data will be used Right to know what information the business holds on the consumer Right to request that a business deletes any information on the consumer Right to refuse the sale of the consumer’s information to a third-party Right not to be discriminated against if the consumer does not permit the sale of their data Organisations may need to radically change their business practices to ensure that they can fulfil their obligations to consumers and act efficiently if a consumer exercises any of their rights.
